Chess has become more popular in the recent years especially due to the release of the Netflix movie ‘Queen’s Gambit’ in 2020. A lot of data scientists looked into the impact that this show had on the people and an immense growth of this game was observed. However, since then, not a lot happened in the chess world, not until 5th September, 2022.
Magnus Carlsen, who was undefeated in 50+ classical games lost to a 19-year-old, Hans Niemann and immediately withdrew from the tournament. It was the first time that Magnus had done such a thing and people started suspecting that Hans had cheated. Following this, when Magnus and Hans faced the next time, Magnus resigned in just one move. This shook the chess world. Magnus had not given an official statement so people started drawing their own conclusions. Various streamers and big entities like Hikaru Nakamura and Ludwig took to the stage and discussed the possibilities. The New York times posted an article highlighting the possible scandal as well. In an official statement by Magnus a week later, he did say that Hans ‘possibly cheated’ but could not say anything more. Hans even admitted to cheating in the past. A lot of detailed analysis was done to his game against Magnus and his previous games. Chess.com, the biggest online chess platform, revealed that Hans has cheated more than 100 times.
This had a severe impact on chess. Chess saw a huge boom in popularity as more and more famous people started streaming this game. A dataset of 10000 is taken from the chess.com API. 
